[Music]
now i don't want to brag
but i will i once explored one of the
harshest lands in the world
figured out how to dig myself out of a
death trap
and also brawled with a polar bear oh
and i played in a movie that got an
oscar
okay that wasn't actually me it was one
of the most
interesting people in history peter
freud
check this out the life of this danish
explorer was
full of wild adventures that hollywood
action movies can't even compare to
by the way he was six feet seven inches
tall
which made this giant powerful man look
like a real hero
and he really was but let's not get
ahead of the story
peter freuden was born in 1886 in the
town of new curbing felsta
in denmark his father was a wealthy
businessman who hoped that his son would
have a respectful
career at first freuden obeyed his
father's wish
and went to the university of copenhagen
to study medicine
but soon he realized that an ordinary
life just wasn't for him
he craved danger and no boy did he get
what he wanted
[Music]
troyen dropped out of the university not
knowing that two years of studying
medicine
would save his life one day
the beginning of the 20th century was a
time when explorers were immensely
interested in the arctic
it's no wonder that freuden ended up
joining one of these expeditions
in 1906 he and some other members of the
denmark expedition
sailed north as far as possible then
left the ship
and continued traveling 600 miles by dog
sled
exploring the uncharted wilderness of
greenland and the north pole
freuden served there as a meteorological
assistant gathering different geographic
information
as you can guess life there was anything
but easy
imagine living in a hut where there's no
one within miles
only frigid cold and well lurking wolves
that's how freud spent most of his time
but the harshness of the arctic land
didn't scare him
on the contrary it intrigued him
during the expedition which lasted two
years he met with the inuit people
they taught him their language and took
him to hunt walruses
whale seals and even polar bears
allegedly freuden was once attacked by a
polar bear
but the ferocious animal was no match
for the tough man
froyan killed it with his bare hands
then made himself a pretty staggering
fur coat
but that was only the first time he had
to face death
freuden eventually became close with
knude rasmussen
who was an anthropologist and arctic
explorer
often called the father of eskimology
the two men developed a strong
friendship
sharing a love for dangerous experiences
when the expedition was over
freuden came back home to denmark but
only for a very short time
in 1910 peter together with rasmussen
established the thule trade station at
cape york greenland
to serve as a trading port after some
time
tule became the home base for several
expeditions
aptly called the thule expeditions
between 1912
and 1933. one of those expeditions cost
him a leg
but i'll come back to that in a minute
trade was too boring for freud and
rasmussen
so they started to explore the island
actively
during their stay with the inuit they
explored most of the territory
traveling more than 6 200 miles on a dog
sled
the men crossed the greenland ice sheet
found a side of ancient people
made several geographical discoveries
and were able to draw a detailed map of
greenland
while staying there freuden also married
an inuit woman
and studied the culture of her people
becoming an expert
that's why later he gave lectures on it
during his short visits home
and wrote several books about their life
and traditions
his knowledge of their culture would
even lead to him making an
oscar-winning movie
ah i'm getting ahead of myself again
let's go back to his life in greenland
during one of the thule expeditions
something both terrible
and amazing happened freuden and
rasmussen decided to test
american explorer robert perry's
infamous claim
that a channel divided greenland from
perry land
they proved it to be false but almost
died on their 620-mile trek into the
heart of the frozen continent on their
journey they were caught up in a violent
blizzard
freund took shelter under a dog sled but
the storm was so powerful that he was
buried completely under the snow
which started turning into ice the ice
was so tightly packed around him
that his beard was frozen to it the man
found himself trapped in a tiny cave
unable to escape because he didn't have
any daggers or spears with
him he tried to break the ice with his
own hands but failed
the situation was becoming more and more
critical with every minute
if freyan didn't find a way to break
free soon
he could die from a lack of oxygen but
knowing there was no one to rescue him
his will to survive kicked in froyon
made a dagger out of his own feces
which froze solid and became hard enough
to help him dig his way
out now that's probably the most bizarre
survival story
i've ever heard talk about ingenious
solutions
but that was only the first part of his
ordeal
when he got back to camp he noticed that
his two
toes looked almost black because of
severe frostbite
it's no wonder by the way since the
average temperature in greenland
was about minus 12 degrees fahrenheit
freund realized that the toes had turned
gangrenous
which meant that his life was in danger
yeah
again obviously he couldn't count on
getting medical help
and the only thing left to do was to
rely on his memory of
everything he studied about medicine
back at the university
without any anesthesia or painkillers
freuden had to amputate the toes on his
own
okay i can't even imagine how painful
that was
this man was just way too tough no
wonder the inuit people called him
peter the great soon he returned to
denmark and went to see a doctor
unfortunately the doctor had to amputate
his leg
and freun ended up with a peg but if you
think that somehow stopped him from
living his wild life
then think again of course at first he
took some time off from expeditions to
recuperate
he settled down on his own island which
he had previously bought
using the money he earned during the
trading with the inuits
since his first wife passed away from
the flu freund decided to marry again
being a man of many talents for some
time he worked as the editor-in-chief of
a magazine
that belonged to the family of his new
wife and wrote books about his
adventures in his free time
however in 1932 he finally went back to
greenland
this time the expedition was financed by
the metro goldwyn mayer film studios
turned out that hollywood was interested
in the books about freuden's experiences
in the arctic
and wanted to make a movie based on them
freuden helped write the screenplay
translated the dialogue into inuit
language worked as an
interpreter on the set helped the film
crew survive
and even played the film's villain a
year later in 1933
the movie called eskimo came out and
won an oscar freund kept working as a
consultant for the film industry
and wrote a few other screenplays
related to the arctic
but when the second world war broke out
freund joined the resistance movement
and fought against the invaders because
of this he was caught and sentenced to
be executed
however freudian managed to escape and
flee to sweden
and later moved to the u.s it still
remains a mystery how he pulled it off
but honestly i'm not even surprised at
this point
i mean not like it was the first time he
had a brush with death
in 1945 freud married for the third time
since his previous wife decided to stay
in denmark
he settled in new york where he gave
lectures on his expeditions
and went back to working for the film
industry during the 50s
television became the cool new thing and
freyjan made an appearance on it
taking part in the popular quiz show the
000 question and since the man was not
only fearless
but also very smart and lucky he won the
jackpot on the game
walking away with sixty four thousand
dollars
but soon freudian got bored again the
arctic
ice was still calling for him so he
decided to go on another trip to alaska
but he had a heart attack while walking
up the steps to the plane in anchorage
alaska
froyon's life ended at the age of 71.
he remains in the memory of many people
as the danish legend who proved to the
world
that nothing is greater than the human
spirit his ashes were scattered just
outside of thule
which was his real home wow
so do you know any other explorers who
had many crazy adventures
let me know down in the comments if you
learned something new today
then give this video a like and share it
with a friend
but hey don't go anywhere just yet we
have over 2 000 cool videos for you to
check out
all you have to do is pick the left or
right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of